Thomas! Oh my gosh, you made it! We’re so happy to see you! How are you doing, you beautiful man?!
Oh- I’m sorry for calling you beautiful. That was... weird. My bad. You can call me beautiful, Mary
Lee! I always do, beautiful! Ha ha ha! We love each other… hence the marriage. Anyway, what’s new,
Thomas? Anything exciting going on in your life? Hey. You okay buddy? You look real sad in this
photo I just took. Don’t worry, I’ll crop ya out. Can we have the couple for their first dance? Oh
sorry, Thomas! Gotta go! It was so great seeing you! What the fuck everybody?! Now kiddo, if we’re
gonna dish out effs, why not make them friendly hugs? Ahhhhh- eff friends, Patton! Awww-- wait…
you're not talking about friendly hugging your friends. NO! Thomas, you should never--! ...I mean,
I’m surprised that you would say something like that about your friends. I always thought, when it
came to your pals, that sort of language would be... ineffable. It’s very effable! It’s effable as
eff! With a situation this... effed up! You’re not at all excited for them…? With so much eff-use
thrown about, I doubt there’s much he’d like to effuse about. Right! What do you mean am I not--?
Okay, y'know what… Let's review. Review? Let’s do. Thank you. I hope we rhyme like this the whole
way through. I hope so too. Yoohoo! So let’s start with the fact that the wedding was a total bust.
It was? It was. It’s just that going didn’t pay off quite like we discussed. Discussed? You mustn’t
think that going to a wedding to support your friends would have any sort of ehhhh self-serving ends
. I don’t, but how ‘bout more than just, “Hello”? Yeah, something’s iffy. Glad you’re with me that
the state of things is icky. Is there something here we’re missing? Maybe-- No! I mean you know that
we have gone through all of this before. Before? We four had helped you make the proper choice of
wedding over your-- Spare me the rest. Yes! The callback for a film that could have been my break.
Yeah, you could say… And no one wanted you to go more than that slimy snake… Who pushed to do the
egocentric thing: auditioning. Yeah, that’s Deceit! A part of you so hard to chew… it left me lost
at sea! If our goals aligned with his, what would that say? I felt forsaken. You were sayin’ that
we both have lost our way-- But in your face I saw this pain, and so I-- I made. This.choice. And
now I have a restless head; in my bed, I’ll just feel this way. What way? The way a groom might
feel if he just watched as his bride ran away… But you’re gay. I’m saying if I made the right
choice, why don’t I feel right? You may not tonight, but in time, you might? I don’t know, I think
this feeling’s here to stay… It is a pity to admit he could have done more than just sitting at
that wedding feeling- Quit reviewing! ‘Kay. Boy, how could such an upsetting conversation happen in
such a fun way? Ugggh! Why didn’t they just talk to us… more? Wait a minute... why didn’t I just
talk to them... before the wedding? I mean… I kind of brought that up before, but it got shut down
faster than an Antarctic ice pop shop. Oh my gosh. I’m so stupid. I could have just… told them
everything! If my one interaction with them was any indication, they obviously wouldn’t have
cared if I wasn’t there at all. Maybe so... Wh-- wait. Are ya having... second thoughts about
choosing to go to the wedding, Roman? Oh-- no! Of course not! I just… wish we could've known how
they felt. Maybe it could’ve… I don’t know… made things a little easier for us. Well, hindsight
is 20/20... Okay… but if you’re a sighted person with less than 20/20 vision you don’t just
ignore whatever you see in front of you. Mmm. I see. We should start looking into ways to predict
the future. No! What I'm saying is: I know Lee and Mary Lee! I can predict how they might act in
specific situations. I know that they are very understanding people and I should've used that
knowledge-- that would've been using foresight... but I didn't do that, so I... made a decision
with a blindfold on. But in Patton’s defense... people are complicated, fickle things, aren't
they? You think you know someone and WHAM! OUT OF NOWHERE, they fill your apartment with feral cats.
And now, you’re somehow responsible for the vet bills. You gotta give ‘em away, but despite your
cat allergy you’ve endeared yourself to them, especially to Mrs. Snuffles. More like Mrs. Sniffles.
Because of the allergies. …Your point being? Foresight isn't really the most reliable tool that we
have. Cool, so we don't use it at all? We did use it! You’ve known Lee and Mary Lee for most of your life, and they’ve always lent a helping hand when you needed it. That's true. When your car broke down an hour out of town, who was the only person able to come out and give you a jump? Mary Lee… I don't know what good she thought jumping would do… what you needed was someone to fix your car! And Lee did always have my back in high school after I came out... Exactly! Now, here, they met up with you face to face to tell you about their wedding engagement-- biggest day of their lives-- and they asked you if you could be there. I wasn’t even like a groomsman or anything. Oh well… it’s not Lee’s fault that he has so many brothers. Catholics… Catholics… Those baby Makin ‘Catholics… Wedidn’t have the first clue how it would make them feel-- you thinking about giving their wedding a pass because you have this callback that really might not work out… Not that you're not a talented guy! No, yeah, Dame Judi Dench- or as I like to call her: Queen Groovy Binch-  didn't land her first big Hollywood movie role until she was 61! So… Maybe they understand... but maybe they still really want you to come to the wedding, and feel too guilty to say so. Or, maybe you end up going to the wedding, and they feel guilty seeing you there because they feel like they took a big opportunity away from you. But they wouldn’t have felt that way. But we didn’t know that. Foresight means thinking about every possibility. Talking to them about it could've been harmful… and this was our chance to be there for them when it counted. Was not talking to them worth it though? I don’t know... No. What happened to karma, ya know? If you do something good, good stuff is supposed to happen to you! Right, yeah! Why is the saying "Karma's a bitch?" Why can't it be "Karma is a very fair person?" Uhh… Why does their complexion matter? Well, kiddo… unfortunately life isn’t always like your video games. Sometimes you can make all the good choices and still… not get the good ending. I don’t know if there even was a good ending to get. Ehhh,I’m pretty sure there was. Roman, that-- well... that actually does sound... jolly good… I mean, sure. It does sound very jolly, and we can all agree that you are a good fellow. Can we all agree on that? Yes I can!-- We can! All! …Okay… I understand now that I have been a little… Much? The Mayor of Much-kin land. Sure, when it comes to... Giving Thomas the third degree on his integrity.  Right. And yeah, it is my job to keep you on Santa's nice list, but… I haven’t been making you feel… very nice. I don't wanna make you think you’re some…-- Stupid. Dirty. Rotten. Filthy. Silly. Billy. No good for nothing. Uh white. Uh R-Rat. Scoundrel. Okay, thank you, Roman for your help. You’re welcome!  I'm done asking "is Thomas a good person..." I'm just here now to help you be as good at good as a good bud should! Okay, well that’s a relief… I think? So yeah, you are a good fella, but not every good fella gets a big award… only Joe Pesci. Well… what do we get? Sometimes… just this. A bagel? What? No! Maybe...No! Nothing. It’s “nothing.” Oh… Sometimes you can’t get anything, because a lot of the time people need something more than you do. Like, let’s say you pass by some sort of stop where you can buy games-- a game... sssstore! You mean the internet? I’m not going outside. Aww come on Roman! Video games mean so much indoor time that they should cost a little outdoor time, dontcha think? Ehhh... Ehhh… Anyway, you see a poster for the latest instalment in the Frogger franchise. You’re such a dad. Oh buddy… um, Frogger’s not really a big thing anymore. Then they’re missing out! There's no video game character as cool as Frogger. Heck! He eats fly for breakfast! Okay… And trying to cross a busy road without losing his froggie life… phew. Talk about ribbiting. …Like, you're such a dad that it's too much to handle sometimes. Anyway, everyone’s raving about the new Frogger-- best one yet-- AMAZING graphics! At least 16 graphics! Do you even know what you’re saying right now? And, oh yay! It’s on sale for about, I don’t know, as much as a hotdog is worth. Patton, that’s how much you get when you return a game. You have just enough money to buy it. But, as you walk up to the door… you're stopped by a homeless, down-on-his-luck actor, and he-- Who is it?  Who ever you want. C'mon Patton! How is Thomas supposed to feel empathy for this person, if he has no one to visualize! Alrighty… it's ehhh… Leslie Odom Jr. What? Why Leslie? I need backstory for this, what happened, Patton? I don’t know-- ...He spilled a drink on Stephen Sondheim at a party, and Sondheim said: “Goshdarn it, Leslie! You’ll never work in this razzle-dazzle town again!” Just move to another town though, right? Wow… this hypothetical version of Stephen Sondheim sounds like a real mother crupper. SoOoOo… Mr. Odom Jr. tells you that he's very hungry, and he points you to a nearby hotdog vendor that’s just a few yards away. By the liquid lipstick of William Shakespeare! A hot dog would cost Thomas his entire Frogger fund. It's all coming together. What do you do? Pretend you're talking on the phone so he leaves you alone, tell him you don't have any money, buy him a hotdog, or hightail it the heck outta of there? And I really, really want this Frogger game…? Yes, you do! You woke up at 6 AM dull to go and get it! 6 AM dull? You mean sharp? Nah, that's real early for you, so you weren't quite able to get out of bed until like 6:08. Well, regardless, of course I buy him the hot dog! So you mustard up the will to give him a dinner that he could relish. Only-- uh-oh--when he takes the hotdog, he walks away without thanking you. What do you do now? Do you say "you're welcome" in a way that lets him know you think he was rude? Do you prompt him by asking "what do you say?" Do you physically take the hotdog back, or do you go about your day? I mean...there’s an obvious right answer here. Please don’t tell me you’re going to wrestle Tony-award-winning actor Leslie Odom Jr. for a hot dog. What? No! I’m going to go about my day. Even though he didn’t say 'thank you?' He doesn’t have to. Just like you didn’t have to get him a hot dog. I feel like you kind of do though. Maybe! You don’t need the new Frogger. Well… no one needs a new Frogger. Why do you think Thomas has to give the money, Patton? Well… because that money was going to… a luxury item. In that situation, it’s so easy-- it's all right in front of you! A hungry person comes up to you, and says, “I need food, and the food I need is right there.” You have the money and it wasn’t going to something you needed. You can disagree, but I feel like it might be kind of wrong to keep the money for yourself. It would be-- Jesus Christ Superstar! Mama Mia! What is that? It's just me, Logan. I've taken this form because I didn't want to be too invasive. You very much did not succeed. Whatcha doin, Logan? Well, determining what feels right or wrong for you isn’t really my area of expertise. Seeing how there's not much left at stake at this juncture, and that regret unfortunately is a process that can't be expedited, I decided that I need not expend too much energy on this matter. However, I felt that it would behoove all parties involved if I provided relevant information to serve as supporting evidence to any of the arguments that are made during today's discussion. Neat-o! So you’re making your little factoids optional this time around? Facts. Factoid is a term coined by Norman Miller to describe false facts invented for magazines in order to manipulate the readers. And yes, I suppose they could be viewed as optional; your two options being “informed” or “ignorant.” I’ve got this one guys. Hehe I'm just-- I'm-- I'm just kidding… Roman, you shouldn’t push people’s buttons. Enough joking around Roman, go ahead Logan. Jesus Christ Superstar Thank you, Thomas. It would be-- Ope! Looks like I won’t be wrestling a hotdog away from Logan! Haha! Cause he-- cause he thanked me… I’m just-- I’m--...I’m sorry, please go ahead, Logan …It would be an estimated, annual cost of 20 billion dollars to eliminate homelessness in the United States according to Mark Johnston, the acting assistant housing secretary for community planning and development. Americans spend more than 20 billion dollars on Christmas decorations and flowers every year. So it would seem that many Americans do have the currency to spare to end homelessness in the United States forever. Holy Hera! We gotta read—umm… It would be an estimated annual cost of 20 billion dollars to eliminate homelessness in the United States according to Mark Johnston, the act-- ope-- lost all that. Okay. Oh uh, lost all that. Okay! Americans spend more than 20 billion dollars on Christmas decorations and flowers every year. So it would seem that many Americans do have the currency to spare to end homelessness in the United States forever.. Whew… I’m not doing that again, sorry. That was too fast,  one more time, Roman. Huh. Yeah, I guess everyone doing their small part for those in need could make a difference! And even if I can’t change things on my own, something as little as briefly helping a greatly troubled, prodigious actor would still give me more pleasure than playing Frogger. Similarly, if every US household were to give up just one percent of their wealth, then that would be enough to end homelessness in the United States for the next 50 years. Well yeah! I mean, it’s Frogger we’re talking about. Like, it’s not Kingdom Hearts. Yeah! As long as that’s not the main reason you’re doing it. What? Oh-uh-well…You shouldn't do a good thing just because it makes you feel good  I-- You literally said the opposite to Deceit when we were back in the courtroom. Yeah… I did... but we all agreed that in that situation, the right thing to do was go to the wedding, which didn’t feel good at all. So… I was wrong. Not to mention, Deceit said you'd be doing the right thing for a selfish reason if you did it for your own emotional gain. And you agree? Definitely! Maybe… Great. I love that movie. I mean, I think so… What do you think? Well...I think we all know I’m not exactly an expert in… the… moral medium. That’s okay, Roman. I’d like to hear from you. Okay… I… don’t know how much it matters why you do something. Oooooooh… Oooooooh? What do you mean? Oh, nothing. It was stupid. Oh, no! No, please, go ahead. Yeah, I’m...sorry, Roman… Okay… So like, say a very handsome prince-- Who’s the prince? I don’t know. Leslie Odom Jr. Wow! Guess old Sondheim couldn't keep him down. That's right, from homeless, and royally screwed, to castle-dwelling, royalty dude. Just your typical Tuesday. Anyway, Leslie offers up a reward-- What’s the reward? Leslie’s famous cake! Phrasing. What? Leslie’s literal cake that he baked. OH my gosh! He offers it to whomst-so-ever is able to rescue his kingdom from the clutches of the scute-bellied tyrant who is currently occupying said kingdom. Scutes are the short, wide, rung-like scales on the underside of a snake. Even if someone rescued the kingdom for the reward… I don’t know… I just feel like it doesn’t make much of a difference so long as all of the denizens are liberated. The sentiment Roman has articulated here is in alignment with “consequentialist theory.” An ethical theory postulating that an act can only be judged as either right or wrong based on its consequences. In other words, the ends justify the means. Consequentialist theory has two schools of thought: act-consequentialism and rule-consequentialism. On the two schools of thought, Dr. A. Jean Thomas wrote: "Act-consequentialism defines the good in terms of actions justified by their results, whereas rule-consequentialism defines the good in terms of rules justified by their results." So according to act-consequentialism, Roman's hypothetical individual's deed was good, because the end result was positive. That is something… That, um I-I dunno if that’s right. You don’t know if it’s a good thing that the kingdom was saved? Wow, Patton. Way to be a… side with valid doubts about a complex moral issue. Of course I think it’s good that the kingdom is safe! That’s great! The most important thing! But y’know… people in the kingdom are suffering at the slimy hands of this... this… Reptilian rapscallion. I was just blanking on the word “guy”, but sure. People are being hurt by this reptilian with scallions- No- and this person… doesn’t care about them? They just want to earn some… reward? That doesn’t sound like a very good person to me. Yeah, probably  not. Fair enough, but I wouldn’t even argue for that much. Saving people for a reward is totally different from helping someone out just because it feels nice to help. A study was conducted at Berkeley that looked at the correlation between an individual’s happiness and the amount of selfless acts that they performed. This was done by comparing three groups: Group A was not instructed to perform any acts of kindness, while Group B was instructed to meet a quota: five acts of kindness within a week. Group C, however, was instructed to perform all five acts of kindness within one day. It was found that Groups B and C (both of which performed acts of kindness) saw an increase in how they rated their own happiness, but the most significant increase was in Group C (five kind acts in one day). If the person in Roman’s scenario saved the kingdom just because it made them feel good, then no one would argue that they aren't a good person. Well, maybe not-- Am I not allowed to feel good if I do something good? Of-- of course you are! That’s just not why you do it! At least, I don’t think so… But, I mean, you’re Morality. You’re the guy who makes that call. So, why do we do it? Well, you don’t do it because it makes you feel good. You do it because… it’s the right thing to do. Okay... how do you know it’s the right thing to do? You just… know. Gahh… Okay, uh, that’s not exactly the answer I was hoping for, bud. Well, it’s kind of just in all of us, y'know? Why is killing and stealing illegal everywhere? Why do we all agree that that’s not okay to do? I think it all comes back to empathy. Humans understand each other; we know what feels good, and what causes pain. If a whole kingdom's in danger… well… everyone kinda knows that the right thing to do if you can save a large group of innocent people is save them. Well, okay, lemme ask  you this: what if you can only save the large group of people by hurting another innocent person? That causes pain, but you said the right thing to do is to save the group? You...can’t...hurt an innocent person. That scenario was an illustration of the classic philosophical dilemma, the trolley problem. Constructive criticism, you know, maybe not depict scenarios where my friends die. "Trolley problem" is a term coined by Judith Thompson, who also devised it's two most famous variants the "footbridge" and the "switch" (the latter being the version that was just demonstrated). The trolley problem is intended to raise questions about our moral priorities: is it more important to minimize casualties or is it more important to strictly adhere to ethical rules (the notion that it is wrong to kill another human being, in particular). Furthermore, the trolley problem asks us to examine the distinction between actively killing someone, and passively letting people die. Okaaaay. I’m really not trying to argue with you, Patton, but you said that everyone knows that it’s right to save innocent people, when you can. Is that not always true? Well, not when it’s like that! It’s never okay to hurt an innocent person! So… that rule trumps the other rule. ROMAN! You know we don’t like to use the T-word in this house! Oh sorry! So, the rule about not hurting people... overrules the rule about saving people? Yeah, that makes sense right? Right?? But what about the people that got hurt? It’s… that.... was a tragedy that you couldn’t do anything about! But you could have done something. You could have redirected the train. But that something wasn't an okay thing to do! So, it’s not about the end result, then? It’s about the how? Like, how you do whatever you do? Right… the how… and-- and the why. You don’t let the train hit the group of people because you think they deserve to get hit more than the one person. What Patton is saying ties into the principle of deontology. Deontological ethics prioritizes specific duties above anything and everything else; a value system that is perfectly summed up in expressions like "duty for duty's sake," and "let justice be done though the heavens fall." One of the duties that Patton is appealing to (which I had already mentioned earlier as it is the most common argument leveled against redirecting the train in the trolley problem) is the aforementioned ethical rule that one should not murder a fellow human being, even if one finds oneself in the middle of an extremely specific set of circumstances in which homicide preserves more life than is terminated. There is a natural tension between deontology and consequentialism, as deontology determines whether anaction is right or wrong without much consideration of the ends of said action. Furthermore, the deontologically inclined might concern themselves with the intention behind a given action (a factor that would most likely be completely disregarded by a consequentialist). Deontological principles were first defined by 18th century German philosopher, (familiar name) Immanuel Kant. Kant's alignment with deontology would explain why he believed that one should never under any circumstances communicate a falsehood, even if said falsehood could prevent a tragedy. It was not the ends that mattered to Kant; we must abide by the categorical imperative that is "...act that you treat humanity in your own person and in the person of everyone else always at the same time as an end and never merely as means," which is to say: never use your fellow human being, never take away your fellow human being's agency, and never fail to recognize your fellow human being as their own thinking, independent entity. Oh my gosh! Patton, my blinds! I am so sorry. Did you break my blinds? I popped up too close there. Ooh, thanks Roman… you really cut the tension there. Okay. You okay? Oh psh! Yeah, I’m-- great! You sure? Nah I’m good, figment of your imagination so. Okay… so about the whole “why” thing: what is a good “why” when it comes to why I should do good? I know earlier you said you do it because it’s right. So... I guess what I’m asking is: what do you do it for? What’s the outcome? What motivates me? I mean, I don’t have all the answers, but I would say… putting more good into the world. I wish that was a more satisfying answer but… it just… isn’t. …I’m not doing a great job of explaining this philosophy. Logan, what would a real philosopher think about what I’m sayin’ here? Well Frederich Nietzsche really wouldn’t have been thrilled with anything you’ve had to say, primarily because pity seems to be at the center of your idea of “putting good into the world”-- Nietzsche famously rejected the notion that pity was a virtue. He once claimed that pity… ‘runs counter to the instincts that preserve and enhance the value of life…’ So Thomas-- Well, ya can’t exactly learn how to care about others from a book, can ya? It’s okay, Patton. I mean, I don’t really agree with the mustache meister either… He does have a stu—uper duper unique mustache. What he calls pity, I’d call empathy. And empathy is good, but… I really don’t understand what I need to change so that I can meet your standard of having the right motivation. I think I understand. Your desires are getting in the way.  The problem is, in all honesty that you want to spend your money on that new frogger game more than you want-- or even think to give your money to the homeless… and… that you wanted to go to that callback more than you wanted to support your friends. The blame falls to me. If you’re missing that do-gooder drive, I think it’s because I’m in the driver’s seat... and I’m an awful driver. Perhaps… I should let Patton take the wheel… Roman! I only mean well when I say… that that’s the stupidest thing you’ve ever said. Oh Thomas… you’re just blowing smoke. Really, Roman! It’s the opposite. I need you on my team more than anyone. If we’re talking about a drive, or Thomas’ will, then there’s honestly no side more helpful than you. I mean, I guess… But, I get why Roman’s confused... Patton, I don’t know what form the “drive” you’re talking about would take. Everything I do is motivated by some sort of feeling. I eat because I feel hungry. I drink because I feel thirsty. I don't know what feeling would motivate me to go out and do good, if not... some sense of self-satisfaction? The only thing I’m feeling right now is guilt over the things that do motivate me… which kind of makes me not want to do anything… Oh gosh… I’m sorry about whatever I said to make you feel that way. Doing nothing is even worse… What? Oh! Uh--nevermind--sorry! Worse? Worse than what? I...I don’t know if I should say… You might as well. I’m kind of scared to. Look Patton… I already feel bad. I’d rather not feel bad and confused. Doing nothing is worse than doing a good thing for the wrong reasons… like… we talked about how you have to-- err uhh-- I think it’s good to give your money to a good cause if you’re planning to spend it on something that you don’t need. And I feel like the same principle kind of goes for spending time… maybe?? Time spent serving up knuckle sandwiches to bad guys in a video game, could maybe be better spent serving soup and sandwiches to the hungry in a local shelter! I have a difference of opinion on this one, Patton. I'm sure we're all familiar with the somewhat tired metaphor for self-care: you must put on your own oxygen mask before helping your fellow passenger. An analogy that warns against the practice of helping others with their personal issues when you yourself are in need of help. Ayyy! I do need help! It's ironic that that illustration’s so overused at this point, because it has almost become as easy to tune out that advice as it is to tune out the actual safety instructions on a flight-- easy, and very dangerous. In the event that a plane cabin becomes depressurized, you do not have long to secure your oxygen mask before you risk your oxygen saturation levels dropping too much, leading to hypoxia (which is just insufficient oxygen for life functions). Hypoxia's symptoms can include: an inability to communicate, confusion, unconsciousness, and possible death.  Three out of four of those are pretty normal for me. Do I have hypoxia right now? Having heard a piece of information before does not give you license to ignore it in the future, especially when the consequences of forgetting are so perilous. Logan… I completely agree with you, but I really don’t see how that relates to what we’re talking about… Yeah, Logan, like you said earlier, this isn’t really your area of expertise. Patton never said that Thomas couldn’t help himself-- especially in a situation as dire as putting on his oxygen mask in a ground bound plane! Of course I wouldn’t say that! I’ve agreed in the past that Thomas should take the time to make sure he’s doing okay and to temporarily put himself first, if he needs to. And just like all of the moral dilemmas we’ve been discussing, it can seem easy to confidently state what you would do in a difficult situation, without legitimately knowing how you would behave when your instincts take over. In theory, you believe Thomas can and should take some time to care for himself, but every point you’ve made in today's discussion has contradicted that sentiment. How? I don’t think video games versus community service is a threat to Thomas taking care of himself. Nearly every answer Patton has given to the moral questions throughout this discussion has suggested that a moral life is a life without spending surplus capital and time on leisure activities. Dr. Robert A. Stebbins defined "leisure" as "...activity engaged in during free time, which people want to do and... actually do in either a satisfying or a fulfilling way (or both)." Leisure means experiencing freedom-- it’s your time and you do what you want with it, which in turn contributes to a feeling of control, and improved self-esteem. A lack of control, and self-esteem are two factors that you all now understand can worsen Thomas’ relationship with intrusive thoughts-- and they have. Additionally, Doctors Iwasaki, Messina, and Hopper wrote that leisure time promotes a joyful life. And if that isn’t enough, pleasurable activities stimulate the production of neurochemicals which can then improve one’s physical health. Leisure is something that Thomas needs more of in his life in order to feel like he has a life, and Patton is essentially suggesting that Thomas isn’t being as good of a person as he’d like him to be if he doesn’t sacrifice his life for others. Whoooa! That’s not… what I said. Is it not? Please, correct me if I’m wrong. You’re wrong! So if it was between Thomas’ life or another’s, you don’t think Thomas should give his life up? Whoa-- uhh-- I-- Oh and this other person is an innocent little lamb. I--… Or how about a group of innocents? I don’t--… Actually… I would like to know, Patton… What should Thomas do in that kind of situation? I… don’t… KNOOOOOW! Maybeeee?! Patton, it’s ok! Please calm down. We all think of people who lay down their lives for others as the greatest heroes, so… I don't know… You don't know? Earlier you suggested that all people naturally understand right and wrong. So? Should Thomas die so that others may live? Yes? I mean--! Maybe? ...Or maybe not! What do I know?! What do you think Thomas? If it’s your life... OR LESLIE’S! By the slow wit of Heracles, Patton, leave Leslie out of this one! But how is Thomas supposed to feel empathy for this person, if he has no one to visualize? Is there no one else he can… feel empathy for? …You’re right, Roman. Thomas’ life… or Lee and Mary Lee’s! What do you say Thomas…? I don't know the right answer here, Thomas. It's up to you... ENOUGH! …This isn’t working. This entire conversation has become so muddled-due to a constant, misleading, misuse of “conscientious” language. You’ll need a sharp side to cut through all this bull… frog. A sort of… subterfuge specialist. The Lord of the Lies. I’m happy to oblige. WOOP! WOOP! REPTILIAN RAPSCALLION! REPTILIAN RAPSCALLION! We’ve got a Code Yellow! Deceit! What have you done with Logan?! Nothing at all, and I resent the question. Hold on! What are you talking about, Deceit? Who’s misleading who? Patton is misleading you. Frogwash! I may be amphibian, but I can't say that I am fibbin. That’s richer than Jeff Bozos coming from the self-proclaimed “Lord of the Lies.” Do keep it up with the wordplay, it never gets old… He didn’t mislead you on purpose, Thomas. I don’t think the little guy… or…the big frog is capable of that sort of thing. He may have just threatened the life of Broadway’s original Aaron Burr himself.... but you leave our rosy-cheeked ribbiter alone! Patton I’m loving this new direction that you’re going with your rhetoric, sprinkling in a few: “maybes,” “who-knowses,” or “what-do-you-thinks.” Why are you doing that? Because I found out that I was being too tough on Thomas, and it was driving him hopping mad! So I tried to share my thoughts… in a softer way. Right, because making Thomas feel inadequate for not dying in someone else’s stead isn’t tough at all. Here’s the thing, Patton: pushy is pushy. That faux-flexible rhetoric that you’re using to “soften” your approach doesn’t change your intentions… it just disguises them. That was just a hypothetical! Patton’s not actually suggesting that Thomas should pursue martyrdom! Right! I don’t want Thomas to croak! That’s my job! We’re talkin’ about what-if’s, worst case scenario kind of stuff. What I am saying is Thomas has a really good life that other people don’t! You’re over there talking about putting on your oxygen mask before helping another passenger, but we’re not in a crashing plane! If the situation was that serious, then sure, he can focus entirely on himself, but does he deserve it? I don't know… and I don't know if I can believe whatever you tell me. Treating yourself is something that you can take too far. You can take anything too far, Patton. You’ve taken things too far. The plane is going down. You need to give Thomas… some room to breathe. I really don’t know what I’m talking about… I can't not know… Patton, what are you saying? We can still beat him! We’ve beaten him before. Ow! Sorry, I have not looked in this direction the whole time. Don’t give up now! No, he’s right… I’m bringing this plane down… What? How?! He’s the actual snake on the plane! And I, for one, am tired of this morality fighting snake on this metaphorical plane! You know, I’m actually glad you brought up the oxygen mask illustration again, Patton. And that means… you’re not glad right? Of course he’s not! He’s just trying to build up a false confidence in you, so that you can plummet to even greater depths! That does sound like a really funny, wholesome prank, but no, I mean it. The idea is that you need not reach for your oxygen mask unless the plane is crashing, but when you apply that logic to real life, the analogy falls apart. A plane going down is an emergency, but self-care shouldn't be put off until you experience a mental health crisis. Mental health management is a little more like… training to be a lifeguard. You have to spend time practicing, and preparing, and building up your strengths so that when you’re inevitably faced with an emergency, you're better equipped to handle it. Wait… but... you just used a job that's all about helping others as a metaphor for putting myself first-- Ah-duh-doi! I realized that before you brought it up... Just as I'm sure you realize that a metaphor someone makes up on the spot isn't going to be perfect. How about this? So, in some games-- you have to use your turn to give yourself a power boost or to heal yourself, and even though that move only benefits you in that instant… it ultimately makes you a more helpful party member. Not that any of you care, but I am unharmed, and I don’t want to talk about it. I’m just here to deliver one last fact, then I will do you all a favor and spare you my company. Logan, I-- PETER SINGER, an Australian philosopher and activist, champions the movement known as “effective altruism.” The primary feature that differentiates effective altruism from other moral philosophies is its practicality-- it employs the heart and the mind so that effective altruism can earn its namesake and actually… be effective. The aim is to help as many people as possible while maintaining a “perfectly adequate standard of living.” So a poor, sick person giving five of their last fifteen cents to an aid organization, while incredibly altruistic, is not effective altruism because that money won’t go very far, and the act would only harm that person’s already unacceptable standard of living. Fellow effective altruist William MacAskill recommends that people who can, and are inclined to, should go into fields like banking or finance because more money earned means more money to give. Right, like I said: I need to give myself a buff so that I can better help others. And you need to maintain an adequate standard of living -- you can’t forget that part. If the variety of generosity that you subscribe to leaves you feeling depressed, or like your life isn’t your own, then you need to re-evaluate things. What do you know? If it came down to video games or volunteering at a local shelter, it actually might be okay to prioritize gaming sometimes if video games are an essential ingredient in your recipe for self-care. Emphasis on the sometimes though, right? We should still try to help those in need. Whatever, sure, if that’s your thing… I mean, TOTALLY! Yes, of course! But mental health should be regarded with the same life or death attitude as physical health. You’ve been taught to feel guilty for taking care of yourself, but you were also taught that Christopher Columbus was a pretty cool guy. A lot of your education was course shit, forgive the pun. So, what? We’re supposed to do a complete 360 and head back into Selfish City? You mean a 180? Don’t you talk to me about math. You’re not Faux-gan anymore. That’s faux Logan…if you’re too slow-gan. You're right, so why don’t we move on to something we’re both familiar with, Roman: mistakes. I was actually very impressed with you. You made such a noble sacrifice-- Do not try to flatter me, snake. I don’t need to flatter you now, Roman. I mean this. You, in particular, made a significant sacrifice when you sentenced Thomas to attend the wedding instead of the callback. That was a costly choice, Thomas lost a huge opportunity, and a good amount of mental health points in the name of being there for his friends. He didn’t get anything out of it other than a new high score in Word Crush. That's the closest to an act of true selflessness that I believe is possible. And look… it served no one. Mary Lee and Lee seemed to have appreciated Thomas showing face, as much as they would've appreciated any other guest’s attendance. So if they gained nothing, and we lost something… then it was a net loss. So maybe selflessness isn’t always the answer. Ok, well that’s over and done with. What now? You need to unlearn that "selfish" is a dirty word, and for your sake, you really need to start practicing a little more selfishness. In moderation? As all things should be… almost all things. What do you mean by almost all things? You're right. We wouldn't want to plant too many trees. Just think of all the CO² that might be absorbed! Ya got me there. Well when is it enough? …Trees? No! Selfishness. How long must we act selfishly until Thomas is ready to start putting more good into the world? A good question for another time. But I'm sure you'd have us think that that time will never come! And even if it does, what's to stop you from telling us that we've done enough good for others, when maybe we could do more? "Ohh Thomas dropped a dime in the St. Jude charity box, what a good boy you are, Thomas!" Nay, I say! We're ethically compromised if we give the bananaconda a seat at the table! I don't know that we are. We can't trust him! He's asking us to go back on things we've known for years. Rights and wrongs. Shoulds and shouldn'ts. How can we trust him? I don’t have a simple answer to that question...but here’s a start. My name… My name is Janus. Pfft, Janice? What are you, a middle-school librarian? Oh, Roman. Thank god you don't have a mustache… otherwise, between you and Remus… I wouldn't know who the evil twin is. Are you guys seriously taking his side? Over me? Thomas… I thought I was your hero? You are! Wow. I can't believe this. Did you forget that he's evil?! You’re not. You’re not supposed to be. You're supposed to be good! You can't--! Roman… Everything’s going to be ok, kiddo… we love you. Right. Janus… do you think there's a limit on how many times someone can apologize until you have to admit that they're just bad for you? Oh, definitely not. I'd love for someone to ruin Thomas' entire life one apology at a time. Okay. The reality is that it depends. On what? Where to start? How many things have they had to apologize for? How frequently do they have to apologize for things? How terrible were the things that they did? One of the biggest factors, in my very humble opinion, is whether or not they seem to be making an honest effort to do better. Even if that effort is… counterproductive? That does sound very annoying. Again… it depends. Alright, here goes nothing/I guess I know who I gotta apologize to… I’m so sorry, Leslie! It’s ok. I just hope that we all learned not to-- Alright, thank you, Leslie. Leslie Odom, Jr., everyone! This is Sanders Sides, not Odom Sides… I’m not threatened at all… And Thomas… I think I finally understand what my problem has been. Oh, yeah? Time. When you were younger, pointing you in the right direction was a little easier. Those examples I gave earlier-- don't kill, don't steal-- they’re not really difficult conclusions to come to. Ehhh even those can get kind of complicated. I don't want to think about that. But maybe that proves my point… a more mature person comes with more mature moral questions. Like I told you before… sometimes I don't know the way… but when I told you that, you were so scared… I couldn't bear it. So I said to myself: "Alright Patton, Thomas needs you… you are responsible for his morality… you can never not have an answer for him." And then I promised you I’d keep fighting. Unfortunately… I learned the hard way that giving too simple of answers to complicated questions can do more harm than good. So, I'm sorry… again… It’s okay, Patton. I know you’ll do anything you can to make things right. Thanks for trusting me still, Kiddo… I’m going to check on Roman. Before you go, I think I understand now what it means--deceit being here as a part of me. Oh yeah? Oh yeah that’s cool, just talk about me like I’m not here… Yeah, and it's not that I'm an evil liar, or even a fractionally fiendish fibber. Everyone has a capacity for deceit-- including me... and all that means is: I'm not perfect… just like anyone else.…And those imperfections don't make you any less worthy of love. Janus. I’ll take care of him. So, I suppose now we begin compiling a list of people we need to…nudge… down a flight of stairs until they hold another round of callbacks? Oh my gosh! No! Relax! I'm kidding! Of course I'm kidding… baby steps… No! No baby steps. No steps, and no throwing people down them! No violence! You’re right, of course. There are much less barbaric, much more fun. Forms. of sabotage. Don’t make me regret trusting you. I don’t want to be stuck with an evil snake boy. You're not stuck with an evil snake boy… you're just stuck with a snake boy. Oh brother… But seriously, using a mobile game to hide from your sadness and regret at the wedding doesn't count as leisure time. Take some time for yourself, Thomas. You’re right… What’s that? I couldn’t hear you! You’re right! Ahh! Yes it feels so good! So good! Oh, and I know how much you love these constant dilemmas, so please… keep overthinking everything. Yeeeah… I do need to work on that. While there is likely more you can do to put good into the world... you shouldn't beat yourself up over what you can't do, or what you haven't done before. It doesn't help anyone. So, don't overthink it. Just try. All you have to do is try your best to be helpful and to do your part-- whatever that is-- with the understanding that you can never get doing good down to a science -- it's going to look different for everyone. And don't be afraid to give to yourself either. If someone else ever did as much for you as you've probably done for yourself, you would owe them everything. Treat yourself the way you'd treat someone who has endlessly labored to give you a better life, or who has always helped you to remain on your feet through the toughest, most emotionally challenging periods of your life. Try to find your balance between doing good for others, and doing good for yourself, because finding a universally correct balance between the two is impossible, and sometimes painful. So, just trust yourself. Until next time, take it easy guys, gals, and non-binary pals. Peace out! THOMAAAS! THOMAAAS! AHHHHHH!! Hey guys… sup? Sorry, bud. I forgot you don’t like door-yelling. No worries, it wasn’t so much the yelling, as it was… people… at my door. Oh my gosh, I love you. Yeah, actually, can you marry both of us, now? Yes please! I really want to spend the last two pennies in my bank account on a second wedding. Sorry guys, but… I can’t be tamed. Looks like you’ll have to terrify some other more… docile bachelor. Damn. Almost had him. You guys didn’t tell me you were coming over, what’s up? We felt kinda bad because you made it out to our wedding, and we barely got to hang out with you! Oh what? No! I barely even noticed. Really? Cause you were sitting alone at the reception and-- I was just… taking it all in. Lotta mental snapshots. Trying to go less digital this year. But you were on your phone? I was also taking literal snapshots with my phone. I mean, phones are barely digital at this point, right? Totally. Well, regardless, we hoped we could maybe win back your friendship by bribing you with some treats. What? You guys didn’t have to do that. Mimosas--and pastries. Brunch Tuesdays! Brunch Tuesdays. Little throwback. Oh my goodness gracious! Looks like we’re gonna make-a the most o’ this afternoon with some mimosas! …So this is like what you do for a living? Comedy? Right? Yeah, I’m a hack. Are you busy? We could just leave these with you. Oh! No, I was just playing Kingdom Hearts, a game that really centers around the concept of friendship. Would you care to join me? Why would you ask us that? What about us showing up at your door with a bunch of brunch and some booze juice makes you think we enjoy your company? Cool! Come in. We can also do something else if you don’t want to play video games. Well…  seems like everything worked out after all. Guess I was wrong about everything… You and I both know that’s not true.